# Some Self Reminders on Giving Presentations

These couple of weeks, I am occupied with reading papers and regularly giving presentations on my thoughts. So I just wanted to note down some points I personally want to work on to improve my presentations.

1. **Consciously refrain from using fillers.** I tend to plug in a lot of words such as "so" and "like" whenever doing presentations without word-by-word drafts, and I find this habit seriously disrupts the flow of my speech. This often happens when I am transitioning from one point to the next - I have to take a moment to recall the next thing to say but feel uncomfortable simply leaving a couple of seconds blank. Actually, having pauses in the middle of presentations might be a good habit, as non-stop flows of technical content can tire the audience. That's why I've decided to try consciously avoiding these filler words.
2. **Plan one or two points to emphasize and explain in detail for each large topic.** I find this simple preparation step to be especially helpful when presenting on academic research papers. For listeners who are already familiar with my topic, giving my own version of a paper summary gives nothing new or valuable. Therefore, for each paper I present, I now identify a couple of points I find interesting or important, and allocate more time elaborating on my own thoughts and additional research. At the same time, I try to keep the other parts concise and direct.
3. **Be aware not to let details take the focus away from the general chain of thought.** When reading academic content that involves mathematical derivations, I often get lost trying to understand every detail of the math and forget about keeping up with the author's actual chain of thought. I may understand every equation, but then stop to find that I have lost any idea on why the author included the equations. On the flip side, when giving information as a presenter, it is important not to let details become detached from the whole narrative. When diving into detailed logic or mathematics, I find that it helps to remind the audience of the motivation behind these derivations, as well as how they fit into the big picture. In this way, listeners will be able to keep up with my presentation much better.