# Reading *Alexander Hamilton* (The Book)



> aka "When I Try To Fill Up My Blog With Class Essays" part 2
>
> Here is [part 1](https://apri-lllll.github.io/lindsayblog/other/culture)



I recall watching the renowned Broadway musical *Alexander Hamilton* and marveling at the rhythmic flow of the hip-hop styled lyrics, but it was the inspiration of the musical, Ron Chernow’s biography of Hamilton, that truly led me deep into the history Alexander Hamilton lived through and left his mark in.

Alexander Hamilton, who was born in a “forgotten spot in the Caribbeans”, gradually became one of the most important founding fathers of America. In the 800-page book, alongside the narrative of Hamilton’s legendary life story, Chernow interwove important chapters of American history, in a way demonstrating to readers how Hamilton is truly an icon of his time. However, the book’s largest influence on me was not knowledge but on perspective, the perspective through which I look at historical figures.

I learned to make judgements on historical people with regard to circumstances of their time. Before reflecting on the biography, I thought that being flirty was one of Hamilton’s main weaknesses. Hamilton’s affair with Maria Reynolds and his continued intimate relationship with Angelica Schuyler, his wife’s sister, greatly influenced my opinion of him. As I learned more about other people of his time, my views changed. I now tend to see these acts of disloyalty more as results of the society’s structure in general rather than representations of faults in Hamilton’s individual personality, not to say that such acts should be condemned any less. Hamilton rose to who he became in an age where women were not respected, an age where the Declaration of Independence referred to only half the population in its first line. Looking back at history from a modern perspective, recognizing the consequences of a distorted social mindset motivates us to work against remnants of discrimination in the age we live in now. Another example is Hamilton’s lifelong pursuit of chivalry and nobleness. One sentence towards the end of the book was extremely moving, especially compared with the objective general tone of the author. “Hamilton was laid to rest with full honors in a martial style that would have gratified the most florid fantasies of the adolescent clerk on St Croix who had once prayed for a war to prove his valor.” While reading the book, I often found it hard to understand Hamilton’s obstinacy when it comes to valor — dueling, which he saw as a form of chivalry, took the life of his son, then himself. However, I gradually understood that his pursuits stemmed from the stark contrast between his modest background and grand ambitions. Later on in his career, his opponents’ attacks on his illegitimate and foreign birth further engrained in his mind the goal of proving his nobleness.

I learned that many subtleties of historical events are blurred if you attempt to explain everything through the notion of side-taking. In the historical context of Alexander Hamilton, politicians were either Federalists or Republicans, and the two parties were constantly battling each other for power and voice. However, it would be too much a simplification to believe that this animosity between parties explains all conflicts and trends of history. From this perspective, perhaps the most obvious example in the book is the national election of 1800, where the three candidates were Adams, Jefferson and Burr. The race eventually came down to a tie between Jefferson and Burr, both Republicans. The tie needed to be broken by an additional round of votes within the Federalist-dominated House of Representatives. Hamilton, a Federalist who had significant sway among fellow politicians, decided to support Jefferson. This decision, which led to Jefferson becoming President, shocked many people, especially Burr, because Jefferson was arguably the person whose political views clashed the most violently with Hamilton’s Federalist ideals. From financial systems to international relationships, the two men found little if no common ground. We may never know exactly what was going through Hamilton’s mind, but a prevalent explanation for this move was that he saw Jefferson as a person with erroneous but nonetheless concrete beliefs, and Burr as an oppurtunist with none at all. Indeed, Hamilton is much more than the word “Federalist” can summarize.

I also learned that although “no man is an island”, it was important not to see people solely according to their relationships with other, perhaps more famous, historical figures. One aspect I enjoyed about the book’s structure was that the last chapter, *Eliza*, which was dedicated to finishing the story of Elizabeth Hamilton, Alexander’s wife, after Alexander’s early death. Eliza was indeed an impressive person, having shown great resilience and wisdom in those tumultuous times. As Hamilton was often away from home for political or military duties, it was mainly Eliza who was responsible for educating their 8 children, and they grew up to become extremely kind and successful. Unfortunately, Eliza is too often portrayed as Hamilton’s supportive wife, and we don’t acknowledge enough her own independent thoughts and her steadfast advocacy for freedom and equity. The young woman who embraced new ideas with exuberance at the beginning of the American revolution never seemed to have left her. After Hamilton’s death, she dedicated much of her time to speaking against slavery, helping widows and orphans, and preserving historical records of Hamilton and Washington. I appreciated how, in the closing lines of the book, Chernow brought my attention to Eliza herself, rather than “Hamilton’s wife”, the role which has limited too many people’s views of her.  Another example is Aaron Burr, Hamilton’s political opponent who killed him in a duel. After the notorious duel, he was widely attacked for killing Hamilton, leading him to conclude with remorse in his older years that he should have known “the world was large enough for Hamilton and me.” Given Hamilton’s status, it was more than reasonable for people of his time to criticize Burr for the incident, but when we look back to learn from history, focusing only on the fact that Burr killed Hamilton causes us to overlook Burr’s own legacy as a lawyer and politician.

From the timeless classic by Chernow, to its modern revival through the genius of Lin-Manuel Miranda, I saw that behind seemingly cold historical events lies the intriguing complexities of human beings.